# Image Number Stamp

This project is a Python-based utility designed to generate a series of images with centered numbers. The primary use case is to create placeholder images for testing or demonstration purposes, such as when you're working on HTML and CSS layouts or need a set of image files for testing functionalities that require image files.

## Features

This project offers a range of tools for image generation, metadata tagging, and viewing. Below is an overview of each component:

### 1. Image Number Stamper (`image_number_stamper.py`)

This script overlays sequential numbers on a base image. It is particularly useful for creating placeholder images for testing or demonstration purposes. Key features include:

- **Customizable Font and Text Size:** Adjust the text size using the `font_size` variable.
- **Customizable Text Position:** Control the position of the number on the image by setting the `position_x` and `position_y` variables.
- **Font Color and Border:** Customize the text color and border using the `font_color` and `border_color` variables.
- **Automatic Font Download:** Automatically downloads an open-source font from Google Fonts and uses it to render the text.
- **Output Configuration:** Specify the input image, output directory, and the range of numbers to generate.

### 2. S3 Metadata Tagger (`s3_metadata_tagger.py`)

This script automatically adds metadata tags to images or other objects stored in Amazon S3. It is ideal for managing and categorizing S3 objects with metadata, making them easier to organize and retrieve.

### 3. Static HTML Viewer (`index.html`)

This HTML file provides a simple static page to view the images generated by `image_number_stamper.py`. It allows users to easily browse through the images, making it convenient to verify their content and arrangement.

### 4. Centralized Configuration File (`config.py`)

This configuration file centralizes all the settings for the project. By editing `config.py`, users can adjust parameters for image generation, tagging, and other functionalities without needing to modify individual scripts directly. This simplifies the setup process and ensures consistent configuration across the project.

## Requirements

- Python 3.x
- Pillow (PIL)
- Requests

## Installation

Ensure Python is installed on your system, then install the necessary dependencies with:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

1. **Prepare Your Base Image:** Place your base image in the root directory of the project and name it `img.jpg`.
2. **Configure Settings:** Adjust the configuration variables in `config.py` to suit your needs.
3. **Generate Numbered Images:** Run the script to overlay sequential numbers on the base image:

```bash
python3 image_number_stamper.py
```

4. **Upload Images and HTML to S3 (Optional):** Upload your images and `index.html` to an S3 bucket:

```bash

aws s3 sync img/ s3://YOUR-S3-BUCKET-NAME/img/ && aws s3 sync index.html  s3://YOUR-S3-BUCKET-NAME

```

5. **Tag Images in S3 (Optional):** Run the script to add metadata tags to your images in S3:

```bash
python3 image_number_stamper.py
```

6. **Enable S3 Static Website Hosting (Optional):** Update your bucket policy to match the following pattern:

Update your Bucket policy to match the followin patter

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": "*",
      "Action": "s3:GetObject",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR-S3-BUCKET-NAME/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

7. **View the Images (Optional):** Open the `index.html` file on S3, get the object URL, and open it in your web browser to browse the generated images.

## Example Use Cases

- **Web Development:** Create placeholder images with sequential numbers to test how images fit within your HTML and CSS layouts.
- **Application Testing:** Quickly generate image files for testing functionalities in applications that require a set of image files.
- **Demonstrations:** Use the generated images in presentations or demos where numbered images can help illustrate points or examples.
- **S3 Object Management:** Automatically tag images stored in Amazon S3 using `s3_metadata_tagger.py`. This is particularly useful for projects where metadata is crucial for organizing and retrieving large numbers of image files in cloud storage.

## Limitations

This project is intended for educational purposes only and should not be used in other context (such as production environments).

## Contributing

Your contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvements, encounter any issues, or would like to contribute to the development of this project, please feel free to submit pull requests or report issues via the GitHub issue tracker.

## License and Disclaimer

This project is open-source and available under [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). You are free to copy, modify, and use the project as you wish. However, any responsibility for the use of the code is solely yours. Please use it at your own risk and discretion.
